---
layout: post
title:      "	Sinatra Portfolio Project : Crochet Patterns"
date:       2019-11-11 03:32:16 +0000
permalink:  sinatra_portfolio_project_crochet_patterns
---


My sinatra portfolio project is somewhat of a continuation of my holiday crochet scraper.  My sinatra application allows crafty crocheters to be able to save all their favorite crochet patterns in one convient place.  As a crocheter myself, I don't know how many times I found myself surrounded by yarn, yarn pieces, stacks of papers scatters about, and scissors hidden somewhere beneath the stacks of papers.  This project was made A LOT easier by using a gem called corneal.  Corneal sets up the foundation for my crochet patterns application. Another gem that I used to build my application is called faker.  The faker gem allowed me to use 5 fake alias with names, emails, and passowrds this can be found in the seed.rb under db/migrate folder. My application has three controllers, Application_Controller.rb: Main controller, Crochet_Patterns_Controller.rb: sub controller, and Sessions_controller.rb: sub controller.   According to Martin Fowler the Application Controller is  "A centralized point for handling screen navigation and the flow of an application." Crochet_Pattens_Controller.rb  has a class CrochetPatternController that inherits from the ApplicationController.  There is a class variable called @@sizes that is an array of strings. The Crochet_Patterns_Controller.rb has get, post, patch and delete methods that are directed to specific views :index.erb, new.erb, show.erb, and edit.erb that were built for the crochet_patterns_controller.rb.  Models has two files crochet_pattern.rb and user.rb.  crochet_pattern has a class CrochetPattern that inherits from ActiveRecord : :Base this class belongs_to :user.  User.rb has a class Users that also inherits from ActiveRecord : :Base has_many crochet_patterns as well as has_secure_password and validates :name, presence :true.  The third controller is the sessions_controller this controller has a class called SessionsController that inherits from the ApplicationController there are methods get, post, and delete methods that are directed to specific views signup.erb and login.erb that were built for the sessions_controller.rb The application is run by shotgun which generates an address to test the application locally 

